###Development Setup 


####Overview 
This contain high level description of application structure and instruction for setting up of application 
development project. Many open source components are used to develop the application such as of Scala, ScalaCSS, 
Scala-Tags, Autowire, Boopickle etc. This is based on design by Otto Chrons and for more detail visit [here]
(https://github.com/ochrons/scalajs-spa-tutorial) and [here](http://ochrons.github.io/scalajs-spa-tutorial/). 
Another important library called scalajs-react can be found [here](https://japgolly.github.io/scalajs-react/) 
and [here](https://github.com/vmunier/play-with-scalajs-example)

See also the Synereo document [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1F4mXkuO_54oKv_02x6v9UUcycNWJFWUExL8KQNMuGr8/edit).


####Application structure
Application is broadly divided into three folders: client, server, and shared. 

  * Client: It consists of a single HTML file and a number of supporting resources (JS and CSS). One of these 
  resources is the actual JavaScript code generated by Scala.js from the Scala sources. The HTML is defined 
  under the server project in twirl/views/index.scala.html using Play template system. Here you'll find the 
  usual HTML things like links to CSS and JS files. More details can be found here. The project utilizes 
  ScalaCss to generate css, more details and advantages of ScalaCSS can be found here. 

  * Shared: This project contains all the resources for the server and the client. It has the api interface 
  which is implemented by server to call the backend services. Also it has data transfer objects shared by 
  server and client.

  * Server: This project utilizes the play server for hosting the client. It also acts as a proxy server to 
  communicate with the api backend. This additional layer of proxy server was used to solve (or work around) 
  the problem regarding the cross domain calls (CORS). Also it has additional advantage of twirl templates. 
  More details on the server implementation can be found here

####Prerequisites
This project uses Play 2.4.x which depends on Java 8, so make sure you are using JVM 8 or later. It relies on 
SBT as a build tool for building the project. This project uses following framework and code base:
LivelyGig github.com repository location: here  
Java 8 (java version “1.8.0_66”). Download can be found here.
Play 2.4.4 which depends on Java 8 (JVM 8 or later). Download can be found here.
SBT as a build tool for building the project.(version 0.13.9) and download from http://www.scala-sbt.org/download.html 
Add Javac (JDK_Install_Location\bin) command and sbt to the path for the user or system. 


Setting up IDE
Our current integrated development environment currently is Intellij Idea (version 15.0.2 latest version at the time of writing this documentation). For setting up project you just need to create the project from existing sources. More details regarding the same procedure can be found at the following links:  Creating a Project by Importing Existing Sources, Creating and Running Your Scala Application and Getting Started with SBT. Please follow step by step instruction for setting up the project:


Open Intellij Idea and goto File > New >  Project from Version Control > Github (This is important - Please don’t start from dashboard area)
In the dialog box enter the url https://github.com/LivelyGig/ProductWebUI.git and give the folder location as below



Once cloned open build.sbt in ProductWebUI folder and click on setup jdk











In the dialog box browse and set jdk to 1.8.0_66 (after installation from prior download - provide the installation location if needed)





Once that done click on import project. At this point SBT will start  refreshing the dependencies.





Open “Terminal Command” window tab by navigating to lower left side of IntelliJ IDEA windows as show below

After terminal window appears type the following setup of command 
Navigate to project folder “cd ProductWebUI” 
Run sbt (Assumption that sbt is successfully installed in the system)



At this point sbt picks up the build definition from “build.sbt” and start setting up the project. It imports all the dependencies defined under project folder in Settings, scala file and start the play server. After successful execution of “sbt” command a “[Server] $” prompt will appear on the command terminal window
On new prompt execute “run” command. 

This will start compilation of scala sources and start the server at default port 9000.



Navigate to localhost:9000 in your browser.
 



The server now start compiling the code to on single fast-opt.js file and you should see the dashboard.






















Appendix - IntelliJ not setting up as SBT/Scala project and all unresolved item appeared in you IntelliJ while trying to edit scala files then please follow the steps below:
Update sbt.xml file in .idea folder with the following and save the file (auto saved)
<option name="linkedExternalProjectsSettings">
 <SbtProjectSettings>
   <option name="createEmptyContentRootDirectories" value="true" />
   <option name="externalProjectPath" value="$PROJECT_DIR$" />
   <option name="resolveSbtClassifiers" value="true" />
   <option name="useAutoImport" value="true" />
   <option name="useOurOwnAutoImport" value="true" />
 </SbtProjectSettings>
</option>


Re-start your project (Restart IntelliJ) and you will notice “SBT” on the right side upper corner for build (see screen shot)





 Select “SBT” as shown in the screenshot and you will notice SBT dependencies are being processed (message can be seen on the status bar at the bottom of IntelliJ)



